Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to speak about grouping dates in pivot tables.
So I've got a pivot table here,
and what I'm going to do is that I'm gonna drag the order date here in the road section and
look,
actually,
what happened?
Excel automatically grouped the dates by quarters and years.
So is because here it's group the dates here by year.
And when you drill down,
it's also been grouped by quarter quarter,
1/4 to while this is actually an order date field.
So you should just contain a date like the first of January 2000 and 16 for example,
just a date,
but excel automatically grouped it.
Depending on your Excel Virgin,
you may or may not experience this,
so I have office 3 65 year.
So this is what happened on my version.
We can actually UN group the dates says to be able to see our dates as normal.
So if you right click here and then go to ungroomed and this will UN group are dates and
we're gonna be able to see our dates as usual.
Now if we need to group our dates we have different options for grouping Weaken,
right click here,
go to group.
And as you can see here we have the start date and the ending date which excel
automatically chooses here based on your data.
So this is the earliest date on my data and this is the latest date on my data.
So Excel has chosen those as to start an end date.
You can edit that and you can write whatever start and end dates you would like And then we
have here the option to group by months or days or quarters or years.
So say when a group by days instead of months here and Digitas here when I clicked on days
,
I need to click again on months toe insulate months because he could actually select
multiple grouping categories or multiple group by criterias.
You could group by days on months and quarters and years at the same time so that you'd
have this drill down effect that we saw at the beginning of the video.
So I'm gonna group by days and,
let's say,
on a group by seven days us to have a week of data group by a week of data.
And if I press okay,
here,
you can see her.
Now My data is grouped by a week.
And if I drag here,
for example,
the sales amount,
I'm able to get the sales amount for each week here.
So this is the sales amount for the week from the 10th of January 2016 Phyllis 16 to
January 2016 and so on and so forth.
I could change my group by criteria so I can right click,
go to group here on instead of days.
I could just select months and un selected days.
And if I click OK here,
I'm able to group by months and far right click again go to group.
And instead of months,
I select quarters.
I could also select quarters and years at the same time,
for example.
And if I click OK,
I get my data group by years and quarters as well.
You can drill down from the year into the quarter,
says Dickens.
Here these air the group buy options here for dates you're able to group by days or months
or quarters or years.
OK,
so that's it,
guys for grouping dates.
Thank you very much Watching this video I'll see on the next one